Engineer I/II, R&D
Job Ref: 5062071003 | Type: Regular

Apply for this job
About The Role
ABOUT ROCKET LAB

Rocket Lab is a global leader in launch and space systems. The rockets and satellites we build and launch enable some of the most ambitious and vital space missions globally, supporting scientific exploration, Earth observation and missions to combat climate change, national security, and exciting new technology demonstrations. Our Electron rocket has provided reliable access to orbit since 2018, becoming one of the most frequently launched rockets in the world. Neutron will be our next rocket on the launch pad, an advanced 13-tonne payload class, reusable rocket to launch the mega constellations of the future. Our space systems business includes our extensive line of satellites and components that have enabled more than 1,700 missions including the James Webb Space Telescope, NASA Psyche Mission, Artemis I, Mars Ingenuity helicopter, and more.  

Join our pioneering team and launch your career to new heights!



SPACE SYSTEMS

Rocket Lab’s Space Systems team is responsible for every satellite and satellite component made by Rocket Lab: from complete satellites destined for missions to the Moon and Mars, to the individual components and subsystems that make up a satellite like solar panels, flight software, reaction wheels and star trackers, separation systems, radios, and more. Our Space Systems team is made up of engineers, technicians, and designers who design, create, and put together our own satellites for missions across the commercial, government, and defense sectors, or who build and assemble satellite hardware and software that supports other satellite missions.

R&D ENGINEER I/II

Based out of Rocket Lab's site in Albuquerque, NM, the R&D Engineer I/II participates in the development of new solar array components, technology, and manufacturing methods.  This person will first become closely familiar with the products we make and methods we use to make them, then work collaboratively with production engineers and other R&D engineers of various disciplines to create new products and new manufacturing processes to advance the state of the art.  This R&D position requires someone adept at solving problems across a wide variety of domains including electrical , thermal mechanical, and materials.  Join a driven team of pioneers relentlessly tackling challenging projects, delivering on the impossible, and making an impact on the future of space!

(Please note: this position can be hired at the R&D Engineer I or R&D Engineer II level) 

WHAT YOU’LL GET TO DO:

Develop space solar power technology that is among the highest efficiency and lightest ever made.
Advance the state of the art in space solar technology.
Participate in and lead hardware design projects from concept to production.
Develop, qualify and implement new assembly processes including new equipment and advanced automation.
Work with and lead multidisciplinary project teams.
Participate in strategic product road-mapping.
Learn something new every day by becoming a subject matter expert in varied areas of expertise.
Use organizational skills for leading project teams, managing multiple concurrent projects, and planning, prioritizing and documenting work.
Develop a strong theoretical understanding of the science and engineering principles that underpin space solar panels and assembly equipment
Train others, recommend improvements, and conduct meaningful experiments.
Solve multi-disciplinary electrical, thermal, mechanical, and materials problems for space solar panel products that must survive in multi-effects environments.
Use failure analysis methods such as five why, fishbone diagrams, root cause analysis, and FMEA to identify potential causes of failures and develop solutions.
Document and communicate work product using written and spoken reports and presentations.
YOU’LL BRING THESE QUALIFICATIONS AS A R&D ENGINEER I:

Bachelor’s degree in electrical, aerospace, materials engineering, or applied physics
Grade Point Average of 3.5 out of 4.0 or better, indicating strong command of engineering/physics fundamentals
YOU’LL BRING THESE QUALIFICATIONS AS A R&D ENGINEER II:

Bachelor’s degree in electrical, aerospace, materials engineering, or applied physics
Grade Point Average of 3.5 out of 4.0 or better, indicating strong command of engineering/physics fundamentals
2+ years of product design or manufacturing engineering experience
THESE QUALIFICATIONS WOULD BE NICE TO HAVE:

Experience in product development or engineering at an aerospace company
Proficiency in semiconductor device theory and applications, particularly solar cell devices
Familiarity with the space environment and space solar technology
Hand’s on experience building prototypes and experimental validation
Experience with a structured product development process including Requirements definition, PDR, CDR, MRR
Experience with FMEA analysis, Design of Experiments, Root Cause Analysis, Return on Investment analysis, statistical analysis
Experience interpreting technical drawings, tolerance stack-up and GD&T
ADDITIONAL QUALIFICATIONS:

Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, distance vision, peripheral vision, depth perception, and the ability to focus.   
Regularly required to sit, use hands and fingers, operate computer keyboard and controls, and communicate verbally and in writing.  
Must be physically able to commute to buildings 
Occasional exposure to dust, fumes and moderate levels of noise. 
WHAT TO EXPECT 

We’re on a mission to unlock the potential of space to improve life on Earth, but that’s not an easy task. It takes hard work, determination, relentless innovation, teamwork, grit, and an unwavering commitment to achieving what others often deem impossible. Our people out-think, out-work and out-pace. We pride ourselves on having each other’s backs, checking our egos at the door, and rolling up our sleeves on all tasks big and small. We thrive under pressure, work to tight deadlines, and our focus is always on how we can deliver, rather than dwelling on the challenges that stand in the way.   

Important information: